.\"@(#)fedfs-map-nfs4.8"
.\"
.\" @file doc/man/fedfs-map-nfs4.8
.\" @brief man page for fedfs-map-nfs4 command
.\"

.\"
.\" Copyright 2011 Oracle.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is part of fedfs-utils.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2.0 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License version 2.0 for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2.0 along with fedfs-utils.  If not, see:
.\"
.\"	http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt
.\"
.TH FEDFS-MAP-NFS4 8 "@publication-date@"
.SH NAME
fedfs-map-nfs4 \- generate automounter program map entries for FedFS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fedfs-map-nfs4
.I domainname
.SH INTRODUCTION
RFC 5716 introduces the Federated File System (FedFS, for short).
FedFS is an extensible standardized mechanism
by which system administrators construct
a coherent namespace across multiple file servers using
.IR "file system referrals" .
For further details, see
.BR fedfs (7).
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fedfs-map-nfs4 (8)
command provides a FedFS program map for the local system's automounter.
Although it is typically intended to be invoked by the automounter,
it is also safe to invoke directly for scripting or debugging purposes.
See
.BR autofs (5)
for information about how program maps work.
.SS Operation
The
.BR fedfs-map-nfs4 (8)
command locates FedFS domains by looking for DNS SRV records
that advertise file servers exporting domain root replicas.
The
.I domainname
argument determines what FedFS domain is to be mounted.
.P
It retrieves and sorts the domain root replica records
according to SRV record sorting rules outlined in RFC 2782.
It then generates a sun format map entry on
.I stdout
representing the set of servers contained in the SRV record,
a standard export path to the domain root,
and appropriate NFS mount options.
Error messages are output on
.IR stderr .
.SS Globally useful names
Across all FedFS-enabled file system clients,
a unique file object in a FedFS domain is always accessed
via the same pathname.
Such pathnames are referred to as
.IR "globally useful names" .
See
.BR fedfs (7)
for a full discussion.
.P
The top-level directory of a globally useful name is always
the networked file system type (NFS version 4, CIFS, and so on).
A
.BR fedfs-map-nfs4 (8)
program map entry is used with the NFS version 4 top-level directory
to provide globally useful names via the NFS version 4 protocol.
.SH EXAMPLES
Typically, a
.BR fedfs-map-nfs4 (8)
entry in
.I /etc/auto.master
looks like this:
.RS
.sp
/nfs4  /usr/sbin/fedfs-map-nfs4
.sp
.RE
Under the /nfs4 directory on the local system, the automounter uses
.BR fedfs-map-nfs4 (8)
to convert a FedFS domain name to a set of servers and an export path,
which are then passed to
.BR mount.nfs (8).
.P
The automounter mounts this FedFS domain on the directory
.IR /nfs4/domainname .
Note that this also works for dot-prefixed domain names, in order to
support mounting read-write domain root replicas.
.P
After configuring and restarting
.BR autofs ,
to access files in the
.I example.net
FedFS domain, for instance, you can start with:
.RS
.sp
$ cd /nfs4/example.net
.sp
.RE
The automounter uses the
.BR fedfs-map-nfs4 (8)
command to look up the file servers that provide the domain root for the
.I example.net
domain.  It then mounts one of these servers on
.IR /nfs4/example.net .
.P
If the
.BR fedfs-map-nfs4 (8)
command cannot find the requested domain, no local directory is created
and no mount operation is performed.  Applications receive an ENOENT
error in this case.
.P
While these mounted domains remain active on the local system,
the mounted-on directories remain visible.
After a period of inactivity, the automounter automatically unmounts
a FedFS domain.
Local applications browsing the top-level directory
do not see all available FedFS domains.  They see only the ones that
are mounted and active.
.SH FILES
.TP 18n
.I /etc/auto.master
master automounter map
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fedfs (7),
.BR nfs (5),
.BR autofs (5),
.sp
RFC 2782 for a discussion of DNS SRV records
.sp
RFC 5716 for FedFS requirements and overview
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the fedfs-utils package.
A description of the project and information about reporting bugs
can be found at
.IR http://wiki.linux-nfs.org/wiki/index.php/FedFsUtilsProject .
.SH "AUTHOR"
Chuck Lever <chuck.lever@oracle.com>
