.\"@(#)mount.fedfs.8"
.\"
.\" @file doc/man/mount.fedfs.8
.\" @brief man page for mount.fedfs subcommand
.\"

.\"
.\" Copyright 2011 Oracle.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is part of fedfs-utils.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2.0 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License version 2.0 for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2.0 along with fedfs-utils.  If not, see:
.\"
.\"	http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt
.\"
.TH MOUNT.FEDFS 8 "@publication-date@"
.SH NAME
mount.fedfs \- mount a FedFS domain root
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mount.fedfs
.I remotedir localdir
.RB [ \-fhnrsvVw ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
RFC 5716 introduces the Federated File System (FedFS, for short).
FedFS is an extensible standardized mechanism
by which system administrators construct
a coherent namespace across multiple file servers using
.IR "file system referrals" .
For further details, see
.BR fedfs (7).
.P
The
.BR mount.fedfs (8)
command locates FedFS domains by looking for DNS SRV records
that advertise file servers exporting domain root replicas.
The
.I remotedir
argument determines what FedFS domain is mounted and
what network file system protocol is used.
.P
The
.BR mount.fedfs (8)
command sorts the list of available domain root replicas
according to the SRV record sorting rules outlined in RFC 2782.
It serially attempts to contact each file server
appearing in the SRV record list
until a mount request succeeds
or the end of the SRV record list is reached.
.SS Command line arguments
The first argument,
.IR remotedir ,
is the
.I globally useful name
to mount.
Globally useful names are discussed in more detail in
.BR fedfs (7).
.P
The second argument,
.IR localdir ,
specifies the local directory on which to mount the requested
FedFS globally useful name.
As with other file systems,
.I localdir
must exist on the client for a mount request to succeed.
.P
The
.BR mount.fedfs (8)
command converts the specified
.I remotedir
and
.I localdir
arguments, along with information obtained via DNS SRV queries,
to arguments suitable for a local mount request.
It then forks and execs the
appropriate file system mount subcommand (such as the
.BR mount.nfs (8)
subcommand) to mount the file server where the domain root resides.
.P
Because an unmodified file system mount subcommand
is used for the actual mount operation,
the file system's equivalent umount subcommand
is all that is required to unmount this mount point when it is
finished being used.
.SS Options
.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-fake"
Fake mount.  This option is ignored by
.BR mount.fedfs (8)
but is passed to the underlying file system mount subcommand.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
Print the
.BR mount.fedfs (8)
usage message and exit.
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-no\-mtab\fP"
Do not update
.IR /etc/mtab .
This option is ignored by
.BR mount.fedfs (8)
but is passed to the underlying file system mount subcommand.
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-options \fIoptions\fP"
Specify mount options for this mount point and all submounts.
These are ignored by
.BR mount.fedfs (8)
but are passed to the underlying file system mount subcommand.
For further details, refer to
.BR mount (8).
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-ro, \-\-read\-only\fP"
Mount the domain root and all submounts read-only.
.IP "\fB\-s, \-\-sloppy\fP"
Tolerate unrecognized mount options.  This is ignored by
.BR mount.fedfs (8)
but is passed to the underlying file system mount subcommand.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP"
Report more information during the mount process.
This affects
.BR mount.fedfs (8)
and is also passed to the underlying file system mount subcommand.
.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP"
Print version information for
.BR mount.fedfs(8)
and exit.
.IP "\fB\-w, \-\-rw, \-\-read-write\fP"
Mount the domain root and all submounts read-write.  This is the default behavior.
.SH EXAMPLES
To mount the domain root of the
.I example.net
FedFS domain via NFS version 4 automatically, you might add this to your
.IR /etc/fstab :
.RS
.sp
/nfs4/example.net   /nfs4/example.net   fedfs  defaults  0  0
.sp
.RE
If you wanted the read-write replica instead, you could use:
.RS
.sp
/nfs4/.example.net  /nfs4/.example.net  fedfs  defaults  0  0
.sp
.RE
A FedFS domain root can also be mounted with a stand-alone invocation of
.BR mount (8):
.RS
.sp
# mount -t fedfs /nfs4/.example.net /mnt/fedfs
.sp
.RE
This mounts the read-write replica of the FedFS domain root for the
.I example.net
domain on the client's
.I /mnt/fedfs
directory.
A simple
.RS
.sp
# umount /mnt/fedfs
.sp
.RE
unmounts it when you are finished with it.
.SH FILES
.TP 18n
.I /etc/fstab
filesystem table
.TP
.I /etc/mtab
table of mounted file systems
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fedfs (7),
.BR nfs (5),
.BR mount (8),
.BR mount.nfs (8)
.sp
RFC 2782 for a discussion of DNS SRV records
.sp
RFC 3530 for a description of NFS version 4 referrals
.sp
RFC 5716 for FedFS requirements and overview
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the fedfs-utils package.
A description of the project and information about reporting bugs
can be found at
.IR http://oss.oracle.com/projects/fedfs-utils .
.SH "AUTHOR"
Chuck Lever <chuck.lever@oracle.com>
