.\"@(#)nsdb-create-fsl.8"
.\"
.\" @file doc/man/nsdb-create-fsl.8
.\" @brief man page for nsdb-create-fsl client command
.\"

.\"
.\" Copyright 2011 Oracle.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is part of fedfs-utils.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2.0 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License version 2.0 for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2.0 along with fedfs-utils.  If not, see:
.\"
.\"	http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt
.\"
.TH NSDB-CREATE-FSL 8 "@publication-date@"
.SH NAME
nsdb-create-fsl \- create a fileset location (FSL) record on an NSDB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsdb-create-fsl
.RB [ \-?d ]
.RB [ \-D
.IR binddn ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR nce ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR nsdbname ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR serverport ]
.RB [ \-r
.IR nsdbport ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR bindpw ]
.I fsn-uuid
.I fsl-uuid
.I servername
.I serverpath
.SH INTRODUCTION
RFC 5716 introduces the Federated File System (FedFS, for short).
FedFS is an extensible standardized mechanism
by which system administrators construct
a coherent namespace across multiple file servers using
.IR "file system referrals" .
For further details, see
.BR fedfs (7).
.P
The bulk of FedFS junction information in a FedFS domain is stored
on one or more LDAP servers.
These servers are known as
.IR "namespace databases" ,
or NSDBs, for short.
.P
FedFS-enabled file servers and clients access the information stored
on NSDBs via standard LDAP queries.
FedFS-enabled file servers use these queries to resolve FedFS junctions.
FedFS administrators use them to manage information
about file sets contained in a FedFS domain name space.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command is part of a collection of low-level single-use programs
that is intended for testing the NSDB protocol or for use in scripts.
This command creates a FedFS
.I fileset location
(FSL) record on an NSDB.
.P
A fileset location, or FSL, uniquely identifies the location of one
replica of a fileset.
An FSL consists of two UUIDs, the hostname and port of an NSDB,
and the hostname and port of the file server where the replica resides.
The meaning of these items is described in more detail in
.BR fedfs (7).
.P
FSLs are stored in records on an NSDB.
FSL records are stored as children of FSN records.
Replicas of these records can exist on more than one LDAP server.
.P
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command creates an FSL record on the named NSDB.
It does not create parent FSN records.
To create FSN records, use the
.BR nsdb-create-fsn (8)
command.
It does not create a replica of a fileset.
To create a fileset replica,
use appropriate file server administrative commands.
.P
This command has four positional parameters.  The first parameter
specifies the target FSN UUID.  If a record for this FSN does not
already exist, the
.BR nsdb-create-fsn (8)
command fails.
The second parameter specifies the
UUID of the new FSL record.  If a record for this FSL already
exists, the
.BR nsdb-create-fsn (8)
command fails.
.P
The third parameter specifies the
hostname of the fileserver where the fileset replica resides.
The fourth parameter specifies the export path of that replica.
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsn (8)
command does not verify that a replica exists at that location.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-debug"
Enables debugging messages during operation.
.IP "\fB\-?, \-\-help"
Displays
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
version information and a usage message on
.IR stderr .
.IP "\fB-D, \-\-binddn=\fIbind-distinguished-name\fP"
Specifies a distinguished name of an entity used to bind to the LDAP server
where the NSDB resides.  If the
.B \-\-binddn
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_ADMIN environment variable is consulted.
If this variable is not set,
the NSDB connection parameter database is searched for this DN.
If none of these is specified, or
if this entity does not have permission to modify this area
of the server's DIT, the
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB-e, \-\-nce=\fINSDB-container-entry-distinguished-name\fP"
Specifies the distinguished name of the NSDB Container Entry
under which this FSL record is to be created.
If the
.B \-\-nce
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_NCE environment variable is consulted.
If this variable is not set,
then the NSDB connection parameter database is searched for this DN.
If none of these is specified, the
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-nsdbname=\fINSDB-hostname\fP"
Specifies the hostname of the NSDB where the new FSL record should reside.
If the
.B \-\-nsdbname
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_HOST environment variable is consulted.
If the variable is not set and the
.B \-\-nsdbname
option is not specified, the
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-nsdbport=\fINSDB-port\fP"
Specifies the IP port of the NSDB where the new FSL record should reside.
If the
.B \-\-nsdbport
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_PORT environment variable is consulted.
The default value if the variable is not set is 389.
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-serverport=\fIfile-server-port\fP"
Specifies the IP port of the file server a client should mount to access
this fileset location.
The default value if this option is not specified is 2049.
.IP "\fB\-w, \-\-bindpw=\fIbinddn-password\fP"
Specifies the password used for simple authentication to the LDAP server
where the NSDB resides.
If the
.B \-\-bindpw
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_PASSWD environment variable is consulted.
If the variable is not set and the
.B \-\-bindpw
option is not specified, the
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command asks for a password on
.IR stdin .
Standard password blanking techniques are used
to obscure the password on the user's terminal.
.SH EXIT CODES
The NSDB returns a value that reflects the success of the requested operation.
.TP
.B FEDFS_OK
The LDAP modify request succeeded.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_ACCESS
The bound entity does not have permission to perform the requested operation.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_INVAL
One of the arguments was not valid.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_SVRFAULT
An unanticipated non-protocol error occurred.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_ROUTE
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command was unable to find a route to the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_DOWN
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command determined that the specified NSDB was down.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_CONN
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command was unable to establish a connection with the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_AUTH
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command was unable to authenticate
and establish a secure connection with the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP
A non-specific LDAP error occurred on the connection between the
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command and specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_VAL
An LDAP error occurred on the connection between the
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command and specified NSDB.
The specific error may be displayed on the command line.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_NONCE
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command was unable to locate the NCE on the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_NOFSN
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command was unable to locate the specified FSN on the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_NOFSL
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command was unable to locate the specified FSL for the specified FSN
on the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_RESPONSE
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command received a malformed response from the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_FAULT
An unanticipated error related to the specified NSDB occurred.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_PARAMS
The local NSDB connection parameter database
does not have any connection parameters on record for the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_REFERRAL
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it was unable to follow.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_REFERRAL_VAL
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it was unable to follow.
A specific error may be displayed on the command line.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_REFERRAL_NOTFOLLOWED
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it chose not to follow,
either because the local implementation does not support
following LDAP referrals or LDAP referral following is disabled.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_PARAMS_LDAP_REFERRAL
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it chose not to follow
because the local NSDB connection parameter database had no
connection parameters for the NSDB targeted by the LDAP referral.
.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose you are the FedFS administrator of the
.I example.net
FedFS domain and that you have created a new FSN for some fileset.
The new FSN looks like:
.RS
.sp
	FSN UUID: 8e246ddc-7b46-11e0-8252-000c297fd679
.br
	NSDB: nsdb.example.net:389
.sp
.RE
Further suppose the NSDB
.I nsdb.example.net:389
has an NSDB Container Entry whose distinguished name is
.IR o=fedfs ,
and that an FSN record for the above UUID already exists.
Finally, a replica of this fileset exists at
.IR fileserver.example.net:/export/path .
To create a corresponding FSL record, you might use:
.RS
.sp
$ nsdb-create-fsl -D cn=Manager -e o=fedfs \\
.br
	-l nsdb.example.net \\
.br
	8e246ddc-7b46-11e0-8252-000c297fd679 \\
.br
	323c5068-7c11-11e0-8d38-000c297fd679 \\
.br
	fileserver.example.net /export/path
.br
Enter NSDB password:
.br
Successfully created FSL record
  fedfsFslUuid=323c5068-7c11-11e0-8d38-000c297fd679,
  fedfsFsnUuid=8e246ddc-7b46-11e0-8252-000c297fd679,o=fedfs
.sp
.RE
A new unpopulated NFS FSL record is created on
.I nsdb.example.net:389
as a child of the FSN record with a distinguished name of
.RS
.sp
.IR fedfsFsnUuid=8e246ddc-7b46-11e0-8252-000c297fd679,o=fedfs .
.sp
.RE
To see the new FSL record, use
.BR nsdb-list (8)
or
.BR nsdb-resolve-fsn (8).
To update individual attributes in the new FSL record, use
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8).
.SH SECURITY
Permission to modify the LDAP's DIT is required to create a new FSL record.
The
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8)
command must bind as an entity permitted to modify the DIT
to perform this operation.
.P
The target LDAP server must be registered in the local NSDB connection
parameter database.
The connection security mode listed
in the NSDB connection parameter database
for the target LDAP server is used during this operation.
See
.BR nsdbparams (8)
for details on how to register an NSDB
in the local NSDB connection parameter database.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fedfs (7),
.BR nsdb-create-fsn (8),
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8),
.BR nsdb-resolve-fsn (8),
.BR nsdb-list (8),
.BR nsdbparams (8)
.sp
RFC 5716 for FedFS requirements and overview
.sp
RFC 4510 for an introduction to LDAP
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the fedfs-utils package.
A description of the project and information about reporting bugs
can be found at
.IR http://oss.oracle.com/projects/fedfs-utils .
.SH "AUTHOR"
Chuck Lever <chuck.lever@oracle.com>
