.\"@(#)nsdb-simple-nce.8"
.\"
.\" @file doc/man/nsdb-simple-nce.8
.\" @brief man page for nsdb-simple-nce client command
.\"

.\"
.\" Copyright 2012 Oracle.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is part of fedfs-utils.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2.0 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License version 2.0 for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2.0 along with fedfs-utils.  If not, see:
.\"
.\"	http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt
.\"
.TH NSDB-SIMPLE-NCE 8 "@publication-date@"
.SH NAME
nsdb-simple-nce \- Create a simple NSDB Container Entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsdb-simple-nce
.RB [ \-?d ]
.RB [ \-D
.IR binddn ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR nsdbname ]
.RB [ \-r
.IR nsdbport ]
.I parent-dn
.SH INTRODUCTION
RFC 5716 introduces the Federated File System (FedFS, for short).
FedFS is an extensible standardized mechanism
by which system administrators construct
a coherent namespace across multiple file servers using
.IR "file system referrals" .
For further details, see
.BR fedfs (7).
.P
The bulk of FedFS junction information in a FedFS domain is stored
on one or more LDAP servers.
These servers are known as
.IR "namespace databases" ,
or NSDBs, for short.
.P
FedFS-enabled file servers and clients access the information stored
on NSDBs via standard LDAP queries.
FedFS-enabled file servers use these queries to resolve FedFS junctions.
FedFS administrators use these queries to manage information
about file sets contained in a FedFS domain name space.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command is part of a collection of low-level single-use programs that are
intended for testing the NSDB protocol or for use in scripts.
This command is an easy way to turn a standard LDAP server into an NSDB
by creating an NSDB Container Entry in the server's
.I Directory Information Tree
(or DIT, for short).
.P
The top of the DIT on an LDAP server has one or more
.IR "naming contexts" .
Some LDAP server implementations call these contexts
.IR "root suffixes" .
An LDAP server's naming contexts are easy for clients to locate
with a well-known search query.
All LDAP entries on that server are contained under naming contexts.
.P
The LDAP entry under which all other FedFS-related entries reside
is known as the
.I NSDB Container Entry
(or NCE).
The NCE can be a naming context entry,
or it can be located somewhere below a naming context.
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command adds an NSDB Container Entry
using a simple NCE DN that can be created without
much prior knowledge of the server's DIT.
.P
Once this entry is created, the
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command automatically adds the new entry's DN to the parent
naming context so that NSDB clients can find it.
The result is a ready-to-use NSDB.
.P
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command establishes an NSDB quickly and without fuss.
A more sophisticated configuration may be
established using standard LDAP tools and the
.BR nsdb-update-nci (8)
command.
This might be necessary when preparing an existing LDAP server
with a large pre-existing DIT for use as an NSDB.
.P
This command has one positional parameter which specifies
the distinguished name of the parent entry of the new
NSDB Container Entry.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-debug"
Enables debugging messages during operation.
.IP "\fB\-?, \-\-help"
Displays
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
version information and a usage message on
.IR stderr .
.IP "\fB-D, \-\-binddn=\fIbind-distinguished-name\fP"
Specifies a distinguished name of an entity used to bind to the LDAP server
where the NSDB resides.
If the
.B \-\-binddn
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_ADMIN environment variable is consulted.
If this variable is not set,
the NSDB connection parameter database is searched for this DN.
If none of these is specified, or
if this entity does not have permission to modify this area
of the server's DIT, the
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-nsdbname=\fINSDB-hostname\fP"
Specifies the hostname of the NSDB where the target NCE should reside.
If the
.B \-\-nsdbname
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_HOST environment variable is consulted.
If the variable is not set and the
.B \-\-nsdbname
option is not specified, the
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-nsdbport=\fINSDB-port\fP"
Specifies the IP port of the NSDB where the target NCE should reside.
If the
.B \-\-nsdbport
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_PORT environment variable is consulted.
The default value if the variable is not set is 389.
.SH EXIT CODES
The NSDB returns a value that reflects the success of the requested operation.
.TP
.B FEDFS_OK
The LDAP modify request succeeded.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_ACCESS
The bound entity does not have permission to perform the requested operation.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_INVAL
One of the arguments was not valid.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_SVRFAULT
An unanticipated non-protocol error occurred.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_ROUTE
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command was unable to find a route to the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_DOWN
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command determined that the specified NSDB was down.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_CONN
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command was unable to establish a connection with the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_AUTH
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command was unable to authenticate
and establish a secure connection with the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP
A non-specific LDAP error occurred on the connection between the
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command and specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_VAL
An LDAP error occurred on the connection between the
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command and specified NSDB.
The specific error may be displayed on the command line.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_RESPONSE
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command received a malformed response from the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_FAULT
An unanticipated error related to the specified NSDB occurred.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_PARAMS
The local NSDB connection parameter database
does not have any connection parameters on record for the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_REFERRAL
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it was unable to follow.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_REFERRAL_VAL
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it was unable to follow.
A specific error may be displayed on the command line.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_REFERRAL_NOTFOLLOWED
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it chose not to follow,
either because the local implementation does not support
following LDAP referrals or LDAP referral following is disabled.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_PARAMS_LDAP_REFERRAL
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it chose not to follow
because the local NSDB connection parameter database had no
connection parameters for the NSDB targeted by the LDAP referral.
.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose you are the FedFS administrator of the
.I example.net
FedFS domain and that you want to make the LDAP server
.IR ldap.example.net
into an NSDB.
Ensure the LDAP server has the FedFS schema installed.
The naming context "dc=example,dc=net" must exist, and
must have an entry associated with it.
Then you might use:
.RS
.sp
$ nsdb-simple-nce -l ldap.example.net -D cn=Manager dc=example,dc=net
.br
Enter NSDB password:
.br
Successfully created simple NCE
.sp
.RE
The distinguished name of the new NCE is "ou=fedfs,dc=example,dc=net".
The naming context "dc=example,dc=net" is updated to refer NSDB clients
to the "ou=fedfs,dc=example,dc=net" entry.
.P
To see the new NCE, use
.BR nsdb-nces (8).
.SH SECURITY
LDAP naming contexts are typically writable only by administrative entities.
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command must bind as an administrative entity to perform this operation.
The
.BR nsdb-simple-nce (8)
command asks for a password on
.IR stdin .
Standard password blanking techniques are used
to obscure the password on the user's terminal.
.P
The target LDAP server must be registered in the local NSDB connection
parameter database.
The connection security mode listed
in the NSDB connection parameter database
for the target LDAP server is used during this operation.
See
.BR nsdbparams (8)
for details on how to register an NSDB
in the local NSDB connection parameter database.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fedfs (7),
.BR nsdb-nces (8),
.BR nsdb-update-nce (8),
.BR nsdbparams (8)
.sp
RFC 5716 for FedFS requirements and overview
.sp
RFC 4510 for an introduction to LDAP
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the fedfs-utils package.
A description of the project and information about reporting bugs
can be found at
.IR http://wiki.linux-nfs.org/wiki/index.php/FedFsUtilsProject .
.SH "AUTHOR"
Chuck Lever <chuck.lever@oracle.com>
