.\"@(#)nsdb-update-fsl.8"
.\"
.\" @file doc/man/nsdb-update-fsl.8
.\" @brief man page for nsdb-update-fsl client command
.\"

.\"
.\" Copyright 2011 Oracle.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is part of fedfs-utils.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2.0 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License version 2.0 for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2.0 along with fedfs-utils.  If not, see:
.\"
.\"	http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt
.\"
.TH NSDB-UPDATE-FSL 8 "15 May 2011"
.SH NAME
nsdb-update-fsl \- update attributes of a fileset location (FSL) record
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsdb-update-fsl
.RB [ \-?d ]
.RB [ \-D
.IR binddn ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR nce ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR nsdbname ]
.RB [ \-r
.IR nsdbport ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR passwd ]
.B \-u
.I fsn-uuid
.B \-x
.I fsl-uuid
.B \-a
.I attribute
.RB [ \-v
.IR value ]
.SH INTRODUCTION
RFC 5716 introduces the Federated File System (FedFS, for short).
FedFS is an extensible standardized mechanism
by which system administrators construct
a coherent namespace across multiple file servers using
.IR "file system referrals" .
For further details, see
.BR fedfs (7).
.P
The bulk of FedFS junction information in a FedFS domain is stored
on one or more LDAP servers.
These servers are known as
.IR "namespace databases" ,
or NSDBs, for short.
.P
FedFS-enabled file servers and clients access the information stored
on NSDBs via standard LDAP queries.
FedFS-enabled file servers use these queries to resolve FedFS junctions.
FedFS administrators use them to manage information
about file sets contained in a FedFS domain name space.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command is part of a collection of low-level single-use programs that are
intended for testing the NSDB protocol or for use in scripts.
This command modifies attributes contained in
.I fileset location
(FSL) records on an NSDB.
.P
A fileset location, or FSL, uniquely identifies the location of one
replica of a fileset.
An FSL consists of two UUIDs, the hostname and port of an NSDB,
and the hostname and port of the file server where the replica resides.
The meaning of these items is described in more detail in
.BR fedfs (7).
.P
FSLs are stored in records on an NSDB.
These records are stored as children of FSN records.
Replicas of these records can exist on more than one LDAP server.
.P
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command can modify certain attributes of an FSL record.
It does not create FSL records;
to create FSL records, use
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8).
It does not update base FSL attributes, such as the servername;
to modify those attributes, a new FSL record must be created.
.P
The
.IR fedfsAnnotation " and"
.I fedfsDescr
attributes are multi-value attributes.
To modify them, use
.BR nsdb-annotate "(8) and"
.BR nsdb-describe "(8), respectively."
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-a, \-\-attribute=\fILDAP-attribute\fP"
Specifies which attribute to update.
If the
.B -a
option is not specified, the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-debug"
Specifies that debugging messages be produced during operation.
.IP "\fB\-x, \-\-fsluuid=\fIuuid\fP"
Specifies the FSL UUID of the FSL record to update.
If the
.B -x
option is not specified, the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-fsnuuid=\fIuuid\fP"
Specifies the FSN UUID under which the FSL record resides.
If the
.B -u
option is not specified,
or an FSN record for this FSN UUID does not already exist
on the specified NSDB, the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB\-?, \-\-help"
Prints an
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
version and usage message on
.IR stderr ,
then exits.
.IP "\fB-D, \-\-binddn=\fIbind-distinguished-name\fP"
Specifies a distinguished name of an entity used to bind to this LDAP server.
If the
.B -D
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_ADMIN environment variable is consulted.
If this variable is not set,
the NSDB connection parameter database is searched for this DN.
If none of these is specified, or
if this entity does not have permission to modify this area
of the server's DIT, the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB-e, \-\-nce=\fINSDB-container-entry-distinguished-name\fP"
Specifies the distinguished name of the NSDB container entry
under which the specified FSL record resides.
If the
.B -e
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_NCE environment variable is consulted.
If this variable is not set,
then the NSDB connection parameter database is searched for this DN.
If none of these is specified, the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-nsdbname=\fINSDB-hostname\fP"
Specifies the hostname of the NSDB where the specified FSL record resides.
If the
.B -l
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_HOST environment variable is consulted.
If the variable is not set and the
.B -l
option is not specified, the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command fails.
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-nsdbport=\fINSDB-port\fP"
Specifies the IP port of the NSDB where the specified FSL record resides.
If the
.B -r
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_PORT environment variable is consulted.
The default value if the variable is not set is 389.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-value=\fILDAP-value\fP"
Specifies the new value that should be stored in the specified attribute.
If the specified attribute does not exist, it is created and assigned
the specified value.
Otherwise the existing value is replaced.
If the
.B -v
option is not specified, the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command attempts to delete the specified attribute.
.IP "\fB\-w, \-\-passwd=\fIbinddn-password\fP"
Specifies the password used for simple authentication to this LDAP server.
If the
.B -w
option is not specified,
the value of the FEDFS_NSDB_PASSWD environment variable is consulted.
If the variable is not set and the
.B -w
option is not specified, the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command asks for a password on
.IR stdin .
Standard password blanking techniques are used
to obscure the password on the user's terminal.
.SH EXIT CODES
The NSDB returns a value that reflects the success of the requested operation.
.TP
.B FEDFS_OK
The LDAP modify request succeeded.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_ACCESS
The bound entity does not have permission to perform the requested operation.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_INVAL
One of the arguments was not valid.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_SVRFAULT
An unanticipated non-protocol error occurred.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_ROUTE
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command was unable to find a route to the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_DOWN
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command determined that the specified NSDB was down.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_CONN
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command was unable to establish a connection with the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_AUTH
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command was unable to authenticate
and establish a secure connection with the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP
A non-specific LDAP error occurred on the connection between the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command and specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_VAL
An LDAP error occurred on the connection between the
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command and specified NSDB.
The specific error may be displayed on the command line.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_NONCE
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command was unable to locate the NCE on the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_NOFSN
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command was unable to locate the specified FSN on the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_NOFSL
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command was unable to locate the specified FSL for the specified FSN
on the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_RESPONSE
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command received a malformed response from the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_FAULT
An unanticipated error related to the specified NSDB occurred.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_PARAMS
The local NSDB connection parameter database
does not have any connection parameters on record for the specified NSDB.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_REFERRAL
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it was unable to follow.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_REFERRAL_VAL
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it was unable to follow.
A specific error may be displayed on the command line.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_LDAP_REFERRAL_NOTFOLLOWED
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it chose not to follow,
either because the local implementation does not support
following LDAP referrals or LDAP referral following is disabled.
.TP
.B FEDFS_ERR_NSDB_PARAMS_LDAP_REFERRAL
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command received an LDAP referral that it chose not to follow
because the local NSDB connection parameter database had no
connection parameters for the NSDB targeted by the LDAP referral.
.SH EXAMPLES
Suppose you are the FedFS administrator of the
.I example.net
FedFS domain and that you have created a new FSN for some fileset.
The new FSN looks like:
.RS
.sp
	FSN UUID: 8e246ddc-7b46-11e0-8252-000c297fd679
.br
	NSDB: ldap.example.net:389
.sp
.RE
Further suppose the NSDB
.I ldap.example.net:389
has an NSDB container entry whose distinguished name is
.IR o=fedfs ,
and that an FSL child record with the UUID
.I 323c5068-7c11-11e0-8d38-000c297fd679
already exists.
.P
To change the NFS minor version used when clients mount this location
from zero to one, you might use:
.RS
.sp
$ nsdb-update-fsl -D cn=Manager -e o=fedfs \\
.br
	-u 8e246ddc-7b46-11e0-8252-000c297fd679
.br
	-x 323c5068-7c11-11e0-8d38-000c297fd679
.br
	-l ldap.example.net
.br
	-a fedfsNfsMinorVer -v 1
.br
Enter NSDB password:
.br
Successfully updated FSL record
  fedfsFslUuid=323c5068-7c11-11e0-8d38-000c297fd679,
  fedfsFsnUuid=8e246ddc-7b46-11e0-8252-000c297fd679,o=fedfs
.sp
.RE
To see the contents of the updated FSL record, use
.BR nsdb-resolve-fsn (8).
.SH SECURITY
Modify access to the LDAP's DIT is required to update an FSL record.
The
.BR nsdb-update-fsl (8)
command must bind as an entity permitted to modify the DIT
to perform this operation.
.P
The target LDAP server must be registered in the local NSDB connection
parameter database.
The connection security mode listed
in the NSDB connection parameter database
for the target LDAP server is used during this operation.
See
.BR nsdbparams (8)
for details on how to register an NSDB
in the local NSDB connection parameter database.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fedfs (7),
.BR nsdb-create-fsl (8),
.BR nsdb-annotate (8),
.BR nsdb-describe (8),
.BR nsdb-resolve-fsn (8),
.BR nsdbparams (8)
.sp
RFC 5716 for FedFS requirements and overview
.sp
RFC 4510 for an introduction to LDAP
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the fedfs-utils package.
A description of the project and information about reporting bugs
can be found at
.IR http://oss.oracle.com/projects/fedfs-utils .
.SH "AUTHOR"
Chuck Lever <chuck.lever@oracle.com>
