.\"@(#)rpc.fedfsd.8"
.\"
.\" @file doc/man/rpc.fedfsd.8
.\" @brief man page for FedFS Admin service daemon
.\"

.\"
.\" Copyright 2011 Oracle.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is part of fedfs-utils.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2.0 as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" fedfs-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License version 2.0 for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2.0 along with fedfs-utils.  If not, see:
.\"
.\"	http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt
.\"
.TH RPC.FEDFSD 8 "15 Mar 2011"
.SH NAME
rpc.fedfsd \- FedFS administrative service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rpc.fedfsd
.RB [ \-?dF ]
.RB [ \-u
.IR uid ]
.RB [ \-g
.IR gid ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR port ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
RFC 5716 introduces the Federated File System (FedFS, for short).
FedFS is an extensible standardized mechanism
by which system administrators construct
a coherent namespace across multiple file servers using
.IR "file system referrals" .
For further details, see
.BR fedfs (7).
.P
The
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
daemon runs on file servers participating in a FedFS domain.
It enables secure remote administration of junctions on that file server.
A remote FedFS administrative client can identify new NSDBs, update an
NSDB's connection parameters (security information and DNS name), and
create and delete FedFS junctions on that file server.
.P
Because
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
can operate on any object in an file server's local file systems,
FedFS administrative clients communicate with
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
via secure RPC.
RPCSEC GSSAPI and Kerberos must be configured and operating
correctly to ensure proper security.
.SS Command line arguments
.IP "\fB\-?, \-\-help"
Prints
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
version and usage message on
.IR stderr ,
then exits.
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-debug"
Enables additional debugging messages to be produced during operation.
.IP "\fB\-F, \-\-foreground"
Keeps
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
attached to its controlling terminal so that operation
can be monitored directly, or run under a debugger.
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
also writes log messages on
.I stderr
instead of to the system log.
If this option is not specified,
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
backgrounds itself soon after it starts.
.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-uid \fInum\fP"
Specifies the numeric UID that
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
runs under after dropping root privileges.
By default, the numeric UID for the user
.I fedfs
is used.
.IP "\fB\-g, \-\-gid \fInum\fP"
Specifies the numeric GID that
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
runs under after dropping root privileges.
By default, the numeric GID for the group
.I fedfs
is used.
.TP
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-port \fInum\fP"
Specifies the port number used for RPC listener sockets.
If this option is not specified,
.BR rpc.fedfsd (8)
chooses a random ephemeral port for each listener socket.
.SH NOTES
To create, resolve, or delete a junction, FedFS admin clients
specify the pathname of that junction as an argument to the
requested operation.
The FedFS admin protocol supports at least two types of these
pathnames:
.IR ADMIN ,
and
.IR NFS .
At this time the Linux
.BR rpc.fedfs (8)
daemon supports only FedFS ADMIN pathnames.
This type of pathname represents a fully-qualified POSIX pathname
relative to the file server's physical root directory.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/fedfs/nsdbparam.sqlite3
database of NSDB connection parameters
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fedfs (7),
.BR nfs (5)
.sp
RFC 3530 for the NFS version 4 specification
.sp
RFC 5716 for FedFS requirements and overview
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the fedfs-utils package.
A description of the project, and information about reporting bugs,
can be found at
.IR http://oss.oracle.com/projects/fedfs-utils .
.SH "AUTHOR"
Chuck Lever <chuck.lever@oracle.com>
